# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

## Release Instructions

Steps:

- Starting on master
- Edit change log
- Revise the version numbers in Cargo.toml files
- Commit the changes
- Release packages in order: roslibrust_codegen -> roslibrust_codegen_macro -> roslibrust
- Push to master
- Tag and push tag

Note: need to publish with `cargo publish --all-features`

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## Unreleased

### Added

### Fixed

- Generated code now includes various lint attributes to suppress warnings.

### Changed

## 0.11.1

### Added

### Fixed

- ROS1 Native Publishers no longer occasionally truncate very large messages when configured with latching

### Changed

- Passing of large messages containing uint8[] arrays is now substantially faster
- Generated code now relies on serde_bytes to enable faster handling of uint8[] arrays
- Switched to a fork of serde_rosmsg to enable faster handling of uint8[] arrays

## 0.11.0

### Added

- ROS1 Native Publishers now support latching behavior
- The XML RPC client for interacting directly with the rosmaster server has been exposed as a public API
- Experimental: Initial support for writing generic clients that can be compile time specialized for rosbridge or ros1
- Can subscribe to any topic and get raw bytes instead of a deserialized message of known type
- Can publish to any topic and send raw bytes instead of a deserialized message

### Fixed

- ROS1 Native Publishers correctly call unadvertise when dropped
- ROS1 Native Publishers no longer occasionally truncate very large messages (>5MB)

### Changed

- ROS1 Node Handle's advertise() now requires a latching argument

## 0.10.2 - August 3rd, 2024

### Added

### Fixed

- Bug with message_definitions provided by Publisher in the connection header not being the fully expanded definition.
- Bug with ROS1 native subscribers not being able to receive messages larger than 4096 bytes.

### Changed

## 0.10.1 - July 5th, 2024

### Added

### Fixed

- Bug with ros1 native publishers not parsing connection headers correctly

### Changed

## 0.10.0 - July 5th, 2024

### Added

- ROS1 native service servers and service clients are now supported (experimental feature)

### Fixed

- The reconnection logic for rosbridge clients was fundamentally broken and failing to reconnect. This has been fixed.
- Generic subscriptions coming from rospy that specified "*" as the md5sum were not properly handled. This has been fixed.

### Changed

- Code generated by roslibrust_codegen now depends only on libraries exposed by roslibrust_codegen. This means that
crates that were previously adding dependencies on serde, serde-big-array, and smart-default will no longer need to do so.
- A significant reworking of the error types in the ROS1 native client was performed to move away from the `Box<dyn Error + Send + Sync>` pattern and instead use the `anyhow` crate.

## 0.9.0 - May 13th, 2024

### Added

- The build.rs example in example_package now correctly informs cargo of filesystem dependencies
- The `advertise_service` method in `rosbridge/client.rs` now accepts closures
- Expose additional methods useful for custom cases not using package manifests or standard ROS2 setups

### Fixed

- Messages containing fixed sized arrays now successfully serialize and deserialize when using ROS1 native communication

### Changed

- The function interface for top level generation functions in `roslibrust_codegen` have been changed to include the list of dependent
filesystem paths that should trigger re-running code generation. Note: new files added to the search paths will not be automatically detected.
- [Breaking Change] Codegen now generates fixed sized arrays as arrays [T; N] instead of Vec<T>
- Removed `find_and_generate_ros_messages_relative_to_manifest_dir!` this proc_macro was changing the current working directory of the compilation job resulting in a variety of strange compilation behaviors. Build.rs scripts are recommended for use cases requiring fine grained control of message generation.
- The function interface for top level generation functions in `roslibrust_codegen` have been changed to include the list of dependent filesystem paths that should trigger re-running code generation. Note: new files added to the search paths will not be automatically detected.
- Refactor the `ros1::node` module into separate smaller pieces. This should be invisible externally (and no changes to examples were required).

## 0.8.0 - October 4th, 2023

### Added

- Experimental support for ROS1 native communication behind the `ros1` feature flag
- Generation of C++ source added via `roslibrust_genmsg` along with arbitrary languages via passed in templates
- Generation of Rust source for actions
- Example for custom generic message usage with rosbridge
- Example for async native ROS1 listener
- Example for async native ROS1 publisher


### Fixed

- Incorrect handling of ROS1 message string constants

### Changed

- `crawl` function in `roslibrust_codegen` updated to a more flexible API
- Overhaul of error handling in roslibrust_codegen to bubble errors up, and remove use of panic! and unwrap(). Significantly better error messages should be produced from proc_macros and build.rs files. Direct usages of the API will need to be updated to handle the returned error type.
- RosMessageType trait now has associated constants for MD5SUM and DEFINITION to enable ROS1 native support. These constants are optional at this time with a default value of "" provided.

## 0.7.0 - March 13, 2022

### Added

- Support for default field values in ROS2 messages
- Added public APIs for getting message data from search and for generating Rust code given message data in roslibrust_codegen
- More useful logs available when running codegen
- Refactor some of the public APIs and types in roslibrust_codegen (concept of `ParsedMessageFile` vs `MessageFile`)
- Added a method `get_md5sum` to `MessageFile`
- Additional code generation API and macro which excludes `ROS_PACKAGE_PATH`

### Fixed

- Bug causing single quoted string constants in message files to not be parsed correctly
- Bug causing float constants in message files to cause compiler errors because `f32 = 0;` is not allowed in rust
- Bug where packages were not properly de-duplicated during discovery.

### Changed

- `advertise_service` and `subscribe` methods on ClientHandle were changed from needing `&mut self` to `&self`

## 0.6.0 - December 12, 2022

### Added

- Initial support for ROS2 message generation
- Initial integration testing for ROS2 all basic functionality covered
- CI testing for Humble

### Fixed

- The generated `char` type within rust is now u8.
- Package names are now determined by the `name` tag within package.xml instead of by directory name

## 0.5.2 - October 31, 2022

### Changed

- No longer generate empty `impl` blocks from message structs that have not associated constants
- Significant improvement to documentation with expanded examples

### Fixed

- `advertise_service` no longer panics if multiple advertise attempts made to same topic

## 0.5.1 - September 18, 2022

Fix to docs.rs build.

## 0.5.0 - September 18, 2022

### Added

- Service server example

### Changed

- `Client` is now `ClientHandle`
- All identifiers in generated code are now escaped with `r#`
- `advertise_service` now returns a `ServiceHandle` which controls the lifetime of the service

### Fixed

- Fixed issue where the spin and reconnect context would never drop even if there were no more `ClientHandle`s
- Fixed parsing issue with triple dashes in comments of service files
- Fixed bug in generation where message properties or constants had names conflicting with Rust reserved keywords

## 0.4.0 - September 18, 2022

Yanked version due to failed publish

## 0.3.0 - September 18, 2022

Yanked version due to failed publish

## 0.2.0 - September 1, 2022

### Added

- Support for service servers
- Into<> helpers for Time and Duration for tokio and std

### Fixed

- Failure in message generation caused by files without extensions
- Failure in message generation caused by failing to quote around string constants
- Failure in message generation caused by bad design of integral types TimeI and DurationI

## 0.1.0 - August 28, 2022

Initial public release

## 0.0.3 - Unreleased

## 0.0.2 - Unreleased

## 0.0.1 - Unreleased
